Add schema proposals (#643)
apollographql/docs: src/content/graphos/delivery/schema-proposals.mdx

The impacts of schema changes on [composition](/federation/federated-types/composition/) and client operations become harder to assess before publication.
Once schema design changes are agreed upon, ensuring they are honored later in the subgraph development lifecycle can become another challenge.

These challenges multiply when attempting to change multiple subgraph schemas simultaneously.
Schema development can stall without the clear cross-team communication needed to understand, verify, and track changes.

**Schema proposals** provide GraphOS-native schema change management.
The centralized proposal process strengthens schema governance and fosters collaboration.
Graph consumers can actively participate by commenting on, reviewing, and approving proposals.

Finally, your organization can incorporate proposals into [schema checks](./schema-checks) to ensure that only approved changes are published.
This increased coordination improves design decisions and accountability, making development cycles more efficient.

## Benefits of native schema change management

Managing schema changes _directly in GraphOS Studio_ provides the following benefits:

> - Editing, reviewing, and approving changes in GraphOS allows for GraphQL-aware schema diffing.

Author: Is GraphQL-aware schema diffing a thing? (Like is the diff process different from a GraphQL-naive one in GH?)

Author: Yes, more description needed.

- The proposal process leverages GraphOS [schema checks](./schema-checks)&mdash;including [schema linting](./schema-linter)&mdash;at every stage. This minimizes the likelihood of errors and inconsistencies and provides an immediate understanding of the changes' impacts on composition and client operations.
- Centralizing the schema change process consolidates a comprehensive audit trail of discussions and changes to the schema.

## How schema proposals work

> Schema proposals are [created](./propose-changes), [reviewed](./review-proposals), and [approved](./review-proposals#approved-reviews) in GraphOS Studio. After approval, the proposal is implemented &mdash;including resolver and any other supporting code changes&mdash; before being published back to GraphOS. You can [configure schema checks](./schema-checks/#proposals-checks) to ensure your organization only publishes changes that are part of an approved proposal.

Author: Are there other supporting code changes other than resolver updates?

### Proposal statuses

| Status            | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                     |
| ----------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Draft             | Default status upon creation and until the proposal is ready for review.                                                                                                                                        |
| Open for feedback | Signals the proposal is ready for review.                                                                                                                                                                       |
| Approved          | The [minimum number of reviewers](./configure-proposals#required-approvals) has approved the proposal.                                                                                                          |

> | Implemented       | All the proposal's changes have been [published](./publishing-schemas). <br/> <br/> - Implemented proposals cannot receive further revisions <br/> - Their status cannot be updated.                            |

Author: Implemented status can never be changed, right?

A proposal doesn't have to progress linearly from **Draft** to **Implemented**. It may be **Closed** before returning to **Draft** and continuing through the process.

### Proposal process

These proposal statuses enable the following end-to-end schema change management process:

```mermaid
graph LR
    subgraph Draft ["Proposal creation"]
    direction LR
    Creation["Start proposal"]
    DraftStatus((Draft))
    Edit["Edit subgraphs,  <br/> lint and save changes"]
    Request["Request reviews"]
    Creation -->  DraftStatus --> Edit --> Request
    end
    class DraftStatus secondary;
```

```mermaid
graph LR
    subgraph Open4Feedback ["Proposal review"]
    direction LR
    Feedback((Open for <br/>feedback))
    Feedback1["Receive feedback "]
    Feedback2["Address feedback "]
    Approvals["Receive<br/>minimum approvals"]
    Feedback --> Feedback1 --> Feedback2 --> Approvals
    end
    class Feedback secondary;
```

```mermaid
graph LR
    subgraph Approved ["Proposal implementation"]
    direction LR
    ApprovedStatus((Approved))
    Fetch["Fetch proposal and <br> implement locally"]
    Push["Push changes to <br> GraphOS  for validation"]

>     Check[["Automated integrated* <br/> schema checks"]]

Author: What are integrated schema checks?

---
title: Schema proposals
subtitle: Propose, review, and track schema changes before and after publication
description: Use GraphOS's native GraphQL schema management process propose, review, and track schema changes before and after publication.
---

<GraphOSEnterpriseRequired />

> As your supergraph schema grows in complexity, changing it can become increasingly difficult.
> The impacts of schema changes on [composition](/federation/federated-types/composition/) and client operations become harder to assess before publication.
> Once schema design changes are agreed upon, ensuring they are honored later in the subgraph development lifecycle can become another challenge.
> 
> These challenges multiply when attempting to update multiple subgraph schemas simultaneously.
> Schema development can stall without the clear cross-team communication needed to understand, verify, and track changes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As your supergraph schema grows in complexity, changing it can become increasingly difficult.
The ramifications of subgraph schema changes on [composition](/federation/federated-types/composition/) and client operations become harder to assess before publication.
Even after schema design changes are agreed upon, ensuring that the design changes are implemented during subgraph development is another challenge.

These challenges multiply when updating multiple subgraph schemas simultaneously, and working between the [multiple roles within orgs and teams](../org/members/#organization-wide-member-roles).
Schema development can stall without the clear cross-team communication needed to understand, verify, and track changes.
```

  - It also minimizes the likelihood of errors and inconsistencies.
- Editing, reviewing, and approving changes in GraphOS allows for **GraphQL-aware schema diffing**.
  - For example, if you add new fields and types in the GraphOS [proposals editor](#edit-subgraph-schemas), GraphOS diffs those additions as new fields and types, regardless of how they are formatted.
  - GraphQL-naive text diffing won't understand and diff changes if they aren't conventionally formatted.
- Centralizing the schema change process **consolidates a comprehensive audit trail** of discussions and schema changes.

## How schema proposals work

Schema proposals are [created](./propose-changes), [reviewed](./review-proposals), and [approved](./review-proposals#approved-reviews) in GraphOS Studio. After approval, the proposal is implemented &mdash;including resolver and any other supporting code changes&mdash; before being published back to GraphOS. You can [configure schema checks](./schema-checks/#proposals-checks) to ensure your organization only publishes changes that are part of an approved proposal.

> Before describing the details of this proposal process, it's helpful to understand the statuses a proposal progresses through.

Reviewer: Is it accurate to call the `statuses a proposal progresses through` the "schema proposal workflow"? A workflow is a basic and known concept for version-control and change-management systems.

Author: Good call. I played around with using the term "workflow" and decided with unifying terminology around "process". I think an occasional usage won't be confusing and can make the writing more concise in spots like here.
